welcome to another video louis from
trade options with me to come here i
hope you're all having a great day
today's video is all about comparing day
trading to swing trading and investing
so after watching this video you won't
only know all the differences between
day trading swing trading and investing
but you will also know which of these
trading styles is best for you and why
day trading swing trading and investing
are three very different trading styles
it's important to pick the right one for
you because there's no one fits all and
every trading style that will fit your
personal preferences but after watching
this video you should know which of
these styles fits your personal
preferences so let's get started I will
start by presenting day trading
so what's day trading the day trader
opens and closes his positions within
one day so a common time frame is a few
minutes to a few hours so it's a very
short-term trading style an example
trade could be you buy 1000 shares of
XYZ at 10 a.m. and center those 1000
shares of XYZ half an hour later that
would be a typical day trade so day
traders try to profit from intraday
price swings for sell from relatively
smaller moves I don't try to predict the
next huge trend in an asset they just
try to predict small momentum moves in
one direction
often day traders based their trading
decisions on technical analysis as
fundamental analysis or fundamentals
don't really move assets price is too
much in the very short term and you can
day trade almost any asset you can day
trade stocks penny stocks Forex futures
and other assets as well so there aren't
too many limitations here
but even though day traders only hold
their positions for very short times
that doesn't mean that day traders only
trade for a few minutes or hours per day
usually day traders monitor the markets
for many hours and they have to be ready
to enter a position almost all the time
so I would say that day trading takes
the most time of all three trading forms
day traders definitely have to monitor
the markets more than longer-term
investors or even swing traders apart
from being able to monitor the markets
day traders also have to have the
ability to act rationally in stressful
situations often day traders have to
make important decisions in a few
seconds so day trading definitely is not
easy it's very important to know what
you're doing when you're day trading and
you should also have some good risk
management skills in fact financial
regulators like FINRA actually find day
trading riskier than all other trading
styles
that's also why they created the PDT or
the pattern day trader rule and this
rule prohibits people with smaller
accounts to day trade more than three
times in a five day business period
but if you're interested in the PD tool
and how to avoid the PDT rule you should
check out another video of mine I'll
leave a link to that video in the
description below next up is swing
trading so what swing trading swing
trading is a little longer term than day
trading but it still focuses on short to
medium term price moves its swing trader
usually holds his trades for a few days
so swing traders try to profit from
slightly bigger moves then day traders
but they still don't try to predict the
next huge trend or the next they don't
try to find the next Microsoft or
anything like that they aren't investing
in an asset swing traders just try to
predict
smaller swings in an assets price swing
traders often based their trading
decisions on news or technical analysis
swing traders usually don't use too much
fundamental analysis because as I said
they aren't investing in the stock or
the asset or whatever they're trading
once again you can swing trade almost
anything you can swing trade options
futures stocks penny stocks Forex or
something else an example of a swing
trade could be that you enter the trade
on Monday and you closed it on Wednesday
swing traders still after the ability to
monitor the market but they don't have
to sit in front of the computer as much
as day traders would it's okay to only
check your positions once or twice per
day as long as you have managed to risk
when entering
generally swing clothes should have a
good idea about what's going on that
should have some general market
awareness there should be aware of
upcoming important events of stocks that
they're trading like earnings or
dividend payments or other bigger market
events because these events can impact
different prices so if you're in a
position that has upcoming news you
should be aware of that day traders
don't have to be as aware of these
things because they are only holding
their positions for a few minutes two
hours now let us move on to investing
most of you probably know what investing
is it's buying and holding positions for
the very long term so investors don't
really care about short-term price
boosts as long as the asset price moves
in their direction in the long run most
investors base all their investment
decisions on fundamentals so they look
at the fundamentals of a company or an
ETF or whatever they're investing in so
they look at the fundamentals and think
that the company will do well in the
future and thus the stock price will
increase as well normally investments
are held for many years
investors should have some economic
understanding they should know what's
going on in the economy because that
impacts the most prices dramatically
furthermore they should have some
analytical skills they should be willing
to go through statements of companies
and analyze different sectors balance
sheets earnings and more of that kind of
stuff
investors don't have to check their
positions or monitor the markets
constantly it's totally okay to look at
your investments once or twice a week or
even less than that this is acceptable
because investors don't really care
about short-term price moves investors
should also be aware of bigger market
events that could impact process
dramatically as you now know what day
trading swing trading and investing
exactly is let's compare these three
let's find out which of these three
trading styles is best for you so like I
just said day trading is a very
short-term trading style where swing
trading is a little longer term it's
like medium term short to medium term
trading and investing is very long term
with that being said almost the opposite
is the case when it comes to monitoring
the market day traders have to monitor
the market most swing traders about
right in the middle they still have to
monitor the markets ideally every day
but not as much as day traders and
investors are totally fine if they only
Moi's to other markets and check their
positions once a week or even less than
that
some key skills that day traders should
have is the ability to act rationally
and fast in stressful situations and of
course the ability to monitor the market
the key skill that a swing trader should
have is market awareness you should know
what's going on what's moving was not
moving you should know about important
upcoming dates and more of that stuff
investors should be patient and have
some general economic understanding
so now you have to ask yourself the
question which of these three trading
styles fits best to you for instance if
you have a full-time job and can't
actively monitor the markets then day
trading probably isn't for you then you
should rather try to learn swing trading
or maybe even investing however if you
aren't very patient and you're not
willing to hold physicians for ages but
you have the ability to monitor the
markets and check the markets every day
then you could look at day trading in my
opinion the most beginner-friendly
trading style is swing trading it
doesn't take as much time and it isn't
as stressful as day trading day traders
off enough to make important decisions
in a few seconds and if you aren't
completely aware of what you're doing
and if you're somewhat due to training
you're probably not able to do that
swing traders have the ability to think
a little longer about what they're doing
so that's also ideal for beginners but
with that being said it's important to
understand that this isn't an end oil
decision you can always try out a
different trading style later on or even
swing trades and/or a day trade or
invest at the same time there's
absolutely nothing wrong with that
nevertheless I recommend choosing one
and sticking with it
to begin with instead of trying one
thing for a few days or weeks and then
trying the next and so on try to really
learn and find out how one of these
trading styles work really stick to it
really commit and dedicate some time to
learning otherwise you probably won't be
successful with that training started
so in conclusion no matter which of
these trading stars you think is best
for you it's important to educate
yourself first education is the key to
success in trading if you don't know
what you're doing you will fail it
doesn't matter if you're a day trader or
a swing trader or investor if you don't
know what you're doing there's no point
so find some good education learn about
a strategy within one of these trading
stars and actually find out how you can
make money don't just randomly day trade
or swing trade when best and random
assets that won't work believe me thanks
for watching I truly hope you enjoyed
this video and I could help you with
your decision if you have any questions
or comments or feedback or anything else
please be so kind that let me know in
the comment section below if you enjoy
content like this make sure to subscribe
otherwise have a good day and see you
soon